OKLAHOMA CITY – It could not happen.

It should not happen.

But it did.

Seconds after an Isaiah Taylor floater tied the game at 72-72 with 2.7 seconds remaining, Northern Iowa threw the ball into senior forward Paul Jesperson for a ceremonial half-court heave.

Except, it went in, and the 11th-seeded Panthers advanced past No. 6 Texas, 75-72.

“It’s March Maddness,” Taylor said. “It’s going to happen during this time of year. Unfortunately, it happened against us.”

The Longhorns, down by 16 points in the first half, stormed back in the second frame to create a tense environment in the final minutes – the teams traded or shared the lead four times in the last 45 seconds. A group of five Longhorn seniors, along with Taylor, was about to concur the postseason demons that had haunted the group for so long.

Taylor’s floater provided that opportunity.

“At that point I thought it’d go to overtime and we had five minutes to win the game,” Taylor said.

Northern Iowa head coach Ben Jacobson did not have a play called for the situation. Normally, the ball goes to star guard Wes Washpun, who scored 17 points, but instead Matt Bohannon threw it to the open man.

Jesperson, who scored 14 points, received the inbound pass on the right side of the floor, took one dribble to sidestep a pair of Longhorn defenders and launched. Senior forward Connor Lammert outstretched his hand, but he did not fully contest in an effort to avoid a foul.

“When it left my hand I felt like it had a chance,” Jesperson said.

“From my angle, it looked like it was good,” Taylor added.

It banked hard off the backboard and dropped. The Panther players exploded onto the court and enveloped Jesperson in a frenetic embrace on the left side of the floor.

The rest of the arena was silent – the rare tune of stunned awe.

“I didn’t think that would ever happen,” said Texas senior center Cameron Ridley. “I guess god was on their side.”

The improbable did happen, though. It’s the special moment that fuels college basketball in March and erases all that came before it in the contest.

Taylor’s floater to tie the game? Gone.

Texas’ comeback attempt? Negated.

A searing wound for a Longhorn team that had seemingly put everything together when it mattered most. Down 16 after the Panthers went on a 23-2 run in the first half, the Longhorns’ normal script said the team would fold.

The same group of seniors that had endured the first losing season at Texas in 20 years as freshman, and the same gaggle that had lost 13 of their final 20 games as juniors were tracking to see their season end far earlier than expected once again.

But Texas head coach Shaka Smart said his team reacted differently. Calm and motivated in the huddle, the team he had often accused of “being bummed out” and “not the most naturally confident” slowly scaled what seemed an insurmountable lead.

“I thought this was about as well as we’ve responded to getting down all year,” Smart said. “The look on their faces was one of resolve.”

After the shot, only agony.

Taylor dropped to his knees and put his head on the floor. Senior guard Javan Felix angrily threw tape at the basket, while two Longhorn teammates carried Eric Davis off the court – the freshman was far too distraught to walk.

“I wouldn’t wish that way to lose on anybody,” Ridley said. “It’s enough if you lose the game, but to lose the game from half court. It’s just heartbreaking.”

For the seniors, the Northern Iowa heave is the punctuation of a career arc that seemingly never could stay on an upward trajectory. The group, which arrived without an upperclassman to mentor it, endured a coaching change, a losing season and even saw a Top 10 ranking turn to dust.

The shot, in of itself a majestic heave that will be replayed in March forever, is a moment that will likely haunt the Longhorns for every march to come.

“To just think about it ending like that, it’s hard. It’s hard, especially for us seniors,” Felix said. “We’ve been through so much, so much.

“For it to end on a half-court shot. It just sucks.”

The improbable is what gives basketball in March its breath and beauty. It’s the source of tears – both of sadness and joy.

A shot that couldn’t happen introduced both Friday evening.

Bliss: “I hit one at the buzzer that sends us to a new day,” Jesperson said. “It’s a great moment for us all.”

Devastation: “It felt like we deserved more,” said Texas senior guard Demarcus Holland. “It’s real disappointing that it ended that way.”

The unimaginable ended the season for Texas. Another promising campaign had ended on yet another sour note.

“We felt like, “Not again. Not again,’” Taylor said. “We kind of felt like this was our year to get on a run.”

It happened again. 
