Donald Trump's visit to Utah not only brought out hundreds hoping to hear him speak but also hundreds more to protest Friday night as the Republican presidential candidate spoke in Salt Lake City.

Salt Lake police said there were no arrests and only minor incidents as police maintained a big presence downtown, including officers in riot gear.


"Donald Trump has insulted so many. And he is unapologetic," Tony Yapias, a protest organizer said.

Yapias helped put together an anti-Trump rally at Liberty Park.

Dozens of Latinos gathered to express concern about the presidential hopeful.

Yapias told 2News there are more than 450,000 Latinos in Utah.

"The majority of them are U.S. citizens, and they are contributing toward a better economy," Yapias said. "America is great. And immigrants contribute to this great state of Utah."

A chant of "shut it down, shut it down," rang outside the Infinity Event Center, 26 E., 600 South, where Trump spoke in Salt Lake. The groups for Trump, and those against Trump, yelled and argued with each other outside. Some minor scuffles broke out.

Police pushed protesters away from the door at one point when the protesters tried to enter, trying to disrupt the rally inside.

"No one comes out these doors," police told officers and security guarding the doorway leading from inside rally venue to the street.

"Dump Donald Trump," was another chant taken up by protesters. Those supporting him broke into "Trump, Trump Trump," chants.

Trump's arrival for the speech required police presence to keep the groups separated. Trump landed at the Salt Lake City airport and then arrived at the speech after it was already full with protesters and supporters entrenched outside.

Trump spoke for about 45 minutes. After he finished, those inside were released through a side door away from the bulk of the protesters and supporters outside blocking the exit.

Chants of "Chicago, Chicago, Chicago," could be heard, referencing the Trump speech that was cancelled a week ago due to protesters and safety concerns.

A few blocks away at Washington Square, protestors both young and old called Trump "bad for America."

"He has created so many barriers," Stephanie Burdick said. "I am in the process of adopting children from other countries; African and Syrian children. And I want to be able to look them in the eyes and tell them that I did everything I could to stop discrimination."

Burdick and many others at the anti-Trump rally said the candidate thrives on violence and negativity.

"Donald Trump creates the scapegoat mentality - that it's going to be the Mexicans' fault or the Muslims' fault. And this is who you should be angry with," Burdick said.

Those waiting to see Trump outside the Infinity Events Center had a different message.

"I believe Donald Trump is the best one to get the job done. He is super conservative," Troy Allen said.

Protestors climbed trees and cars nearby. Det. Cody Lougy, with the Salt Lake City Police Department, said even with so many people gathered in one place, there were no large incidents.

"We had some people throwing rocks and bottles into the crowd and at the officers, but no arrests," Lougy said around 9:30 Friday night.

Salt Lake City Police had assistance from the Utah Highway Patrol and the Secret Service.
