Mitt Romney, the 2012 Republican nominee, will be caucusing for Ted Cruz in Utah next week.
The former Massachusetts governor said he believes no one will win the nomination outright by accruing the necessary 1,237 delegates, which would lead to multiple ballots at a contested convention.
“At this stage, the only way we can reach an open convention is for Senator Cruz to be successful in as many of the remaining nominating elections as possible,” Romney said in a Facebook post.
The primary has whittled from a 17-person field to just front-runner Donald Trump, Ohio Gov. John Kasich and Cruz. But the way Romney put it, the GOP primary is a battle between “Trumpism” and Republicanism.
Trumpism, according to Romney, is about racism, misogyny, bigotry, xenophobia, vulgarity, threats and violence. “I am repulsed by each and every one of these,” he said.
Romney, who campaigned with Kasich earlier this week, delivered a scathing anti-Donald Trump speech this month in which he said, if it were possible, he would vote for Marco Rubio in Florida — the Florida senator later suspended his campaign after losing the state by double digits Tuesday to Trump — and Kasich in Ohio.
“I like Governor John Kasich. I have campaigned with him,” Romney said in Friday's post. “He has a solid record as governor. I would have voted for him in Ohio. But a vote for Governor Kasich in future contests makes it extremely likely that Trumpism would prevail.”
Kasich campaigned at the University of Utah on Friday, causing some consternation among Cruz supporters who are hoping the Texas senator can run up the score and reach the state's 50 percent threshold for awarding all delegates to the winner. He has additional town halls in the state scheduled for Friday evening and Saturday afternoon.
Romney has also said, in theory, he would vote for whoever has the best chance at beating Trump elsewhere. In Utah, he suggested that’s Cruz.
“I will vote for Senator Cruz and I encourage others to do so as well, so that we can have an open convention and nominate a Republican,” Romney said.
In a yet-to-air interview with MSNBC’s Chris Matthews, Kasich said he disagreed with Romney. “I campaigned with Mitt, I like Mitt, and I just — it's a place where we disagree,” he said, according to a pre-released transcript from “Hardball.”
Kasich maintained he’s running for president because he believes he’s best qualified and is the only Republican who can beat Hillary Clinton in the fall. The Ohio governor has no mathematical path to win the nomination outright but is eyeing a contested convention.
“I just don't think anybody's going to get there with enough delegates, and so we'll ultimately have somebody chosen for the delegates who represent the Republican Party,” he said. “Everybody just needs to calm down.”
"The fact is the establishment has gotten it wrong this entire primary and it is unfortunate to see that Mitt Romney is getting bad political advice," his top strategist John Weaver said in a statement. "John Kasich is best positioned to stop Donald Trump in the Midwest, Mid-Atlantic and Pacific coast states. This is just the old establishment trying again to game the political system, but John Kasich's defeated the Republican establishment his entire career."
Earlier Friday, Cruz also won the endorsement of former Texas Sen. Phil Gramm, who had formerly endorsed Rubio. In recent days, he has also garnered support from former foes Lindsey Graham and Carly Fiorina, as well as Utah Sen. Mike Lee.
The real-estate mogul backed Romney in the 2012 campaign and, though he has said he wouldn’t accept Romney’s support, didn’t take kindly to the news. He blasted Cruz and Romney in a single tweet before signaling the “failed” candidate’s endorsement of Cruz was good news for Trump: